In my work, I think about computers. But not just any type of computer. It is a very small computer. How small? Really small. Smaller than your phone, and smaller than the pieces in your phone. Since they are so small, they are hard to work with. Just think if you had to build a tiny computer!<br/><br/>

These tiny computers can be built, but it is very hard. Many times, the people who work to build these computers - let's call them "computer people" - can't even see the computer they are building...which makes it hard to know what is going on inside. Most of the time though, we can learn something about these computers if we think a lot.<br/><br/>

So what do I think about when I think about these computers? I try to think of new things we could give the computer people to help them out. Usually, these things are new ways of figuring out what is going on inside the tiny computer. Sometimes, the computer people are really glad for my help, and sometimes not. How do I do this? I usually think a lot about these computers and the problems they have. Sometimes I think I have a really good idea, but then see it does not work so well. Other times, the idea is a good one, and I write some words to show the idea, and how the computer people could use the idea to help themselves. Most of the time, I write a lot, think a lot, and use my own computer to look up new things. Sometimes, I do checks on my own computer to help me see if my idea is good.<br/><br/>

My work is very fun, and I enjoy it a lot. I get to work with really bright people in a nice building, and from time to time, I go places to meet other bright people, where we talk about our good (and bad!) ideas.<br/><br/>
