---
layout: default
title: Efficiency
subtitle: An Overrated Ideal?
date: 2015-08-11
author: Travis Scholten
---

For the longest time, I believed doing more things and faster was the key to
success/personal fulfillment/enlightenment. These days I am not so sure. Two
events have thrown into question whether the pursuit of efficiency is really
worth it: the rise of superstores and the always on workweek.

**Some header here

Gorwing up, my family shopped at stores like Target, JCPenny, and a regional
grocer. Sunday afternoons were often spent going from location to location,
picking up a few things here or there. (My mother *did* tech me one should shop
for groceries last, lest they get ruined in the car.) Admittedly, this whole
process was inefficient.

Nowdays, it is possible to go into a Target or Walmart superstore and do one-
stop shopping. (I hope the groceries are still picked up at the end of the
trip.) Much more efficient than the previous arrangement, I will grant you.

However, I wonder what we have lost by doing so. Nevermind the inevitable
monopolization of the markertplace acehived by companies with larger economies
of scale. Try finding someone who actually knows clothes in the menswear
department. Or a garderner who can tell you how to really get rid of those
weeds. Or even just someone who is less overwhelmed than you at the myriad of
choices available.

In order to increase efficiency in sales/consumer retail, you can either hire
additional knowledgeable staff, or you can lower staff levels and have them
become generalists. Which of those would a company motivated by short-term
profit and loss statements prefer?

Now, this is not to say that the typical staff member at Target or Walmart is
useless. Not at all. But they are less useful than a dedicated staff member in
one department or another, one who works exclusively with one set of products.

>> Efficiency as practiced encourages the commodification of ideas and pre-
>> scripted routines. It discourages spontaneous and human interaction.

It also subtly implies that those who question it are traitors to the cause -
"Do things inefficiently? Are you insane? We're saving people time and money -
goals worth striving towards, no?" With an argument like that, it becomes
impossible to argue against schemes to "improve" efficiency, and becomes ever
easier to get roped into them.

**Some other header here

Consider the modern workweek. Ostensibly running from 0900 to 1700, five days a
week, it now seems to run 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.
"On call" is a phrase no longer reserved for doctors and nurses. We should
respond to every email from our colleagues, regardless of the time. Work from
home on the weekends...or after dinner. Preferably during - got to meet that
deadline!

Of course, if there is a big project due soon, or an impending deadline, then by
all means, let's work as much as is required to get the thing done. However, not
every deadline is urgent, and not every project is so important that working
nonstop is a good idea. (Unless you really like that sort of thing. Here's
looking at you, [Elon Musk](link to article about elon's work habits)).

>> Efficiency as practiced encourages the commodification of people and their
>> time. It discourages flexibility and necessary improvisation.

As a graduate student, there is often an implicit pressure to be thinking about
research all the time. Sometimes this is good as it forces students to focus on
making real and tangible progress on their work. I seem to do better with
deadlines. Other times, it encourages students to stay in the office past their
peak productivity hours, putting in time simply for the appearance of putting in
work.

**Another header

Efficiency has brought about remarkable gains in standards of living. We can
travel the globe by plane much faster than by boat. You can hail an Uber a the
touch of a button. As is, the "modern world" is really quite efficient. Indeed,
efficicency (and its attendant (IS THIS THE RIGHT WORD?)) trait, orderliness)
are what make the modern world possible.

What have we given up to do so? Probably many things, but one which sticks out
in my mind is creativity. There is an entire class of people for whom we do not
expect efficiency - artisians/artists. We value them precisely because what they
provide  is one of a kind, unique. We understand the innanity in demanding Yo-Yo
Ma producing a new (INSTRUMENT) piece in a week. We do not demand Haruki
Murakami write another novel in a month. We understand that creativity takes
_time_.

Of course, you may observe that a well trained artist can produce a great piece
of work within a reasonable timeframe, especially when compared against an
artist with less training. Are they not more efficient, and is that not a good
thing?

Yes, and yes/no. A good artist, on their own schedule and in their own way, can
produce a better piece of work. But the time savings arises from their skill -
it is not imposed externally. Which is precisely how efficiency is practiced
today - people are expected to produce results by the deadline, instead of the
deadlines being set by how long it should reasonably take people to produce the
results.

A creative process takes time, and we respect that. I calaim a lot of the
"knowledge work" done today - including software engineering (future post!) - is
more creative than people realize. As such, expecting to improve efficiency is
pointless.

On the whole, the concept of efficiency has escaped all human proportions. Just
because things can be done more efficiently does not mean they should.
Especially creative things.

The world mover faster and faster. We humans struggle to keep up. Do we expect
to change our nature? Perhaps we could change the way we work instead.


